ur project intends to create a checkers platform that allows our users to create profiles tracking their personal record as well as additional stats. Users will be able to add/delete information from their profiles with options to include personal information such as name, a gamertag for our site( checkertag), relative skill level, and perhaps some other information as we find it relevant or our users request additional options. Users will be able to maintain a friendslist of other users on the platform that they can use to send each other challenges and private messages. Users will also have the option of actually playing checkers on the platform via challenging another user and turns will be updated via Ajax so that players can play the game out without having to reload the page. In addition to the page reflecting the current game in progress, users will also be able to see stats of the current game as well as lifetime total stats on a side panel. Ideally our project will also implement a working elo system which would allow users to specify if they wanted to play for points(ranked) or just for fun(casual).

Our project, URCheckers, will be intended for users that are interested in playing checkers at a recreational level without having to join a preexisting community where the majority of users are far superior at the game. Most of our users would most likely be students on our campus which allows us to target our platform to students at the U of R. Since individual members that join may have very little in common outside of wishing to play checkers, our platform provides a space where a wide variety of individuals with different interests can come together in order to fosters an improved collegiate spirit. In addition if our platform hits it off well we can go back and implement forums and areas where users can talk about noncheckers events that occur on our campus. By allowing our users to start from scratch with their profiles and by having the ability to delete and create new profiles, our platform would allow all users of any skill level to play the game and not be deterred by an early streak of losses. 

Our idea meets the minimum project requirements since it allows users to create accounts and store data, as well as update and delete their data. Our project would also read stored data from the server and present it on the webpage as well as allowing this to happen without reloaded the webpage. Our project goes beyond the minimum requirements since it seeks to integrate this functionality within a checkers platform, and in this would provide another venue for people on our campus to interact with each other.

Ayush Singh + Feroz Rauf

